Update Rule “ask-for-help/rule” (#3965)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/ask-for-help/rule.md

uri: ask-for-help
authors:
  - title: Sam Wagner
  - title: Piers Sinclair
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/piers-sinclair
related:
  - do-you-use-timeboxing-to-avoid-wasted-time
  - do-you-manage-up
  - do-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails
created: 2022-08-30T04:06:01.553Z
guid: 113b1e11-6df4-4901-9e9f-bcc06b6fb352
---
When you're working, you will encounter issues that block you from progressing, force you to do a lot of research or otherwise spend time building towards being able to complete your work. In these moments, the question arises, "When should I ask for help?"

> 

Reviewer: missing line 

"This concept is critical when trying to talk with Senior developers because their time is much more valuable. If you [call them without having done any research, it will waste a lot of their time and yours](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/investigate-your-question-for-two-minutes-before-asking-someone-on-im) and won't be a good [ROI](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/return-on-investment)"

Author: Added :)

Before asking for help, make sure you've done your due-diligence and exhausted your normal avenues for unblocking yourself. Here are some examples for developers:

- Try Googling it
- Check Stack Overflow

> - Read the documentation e.g. [Microsoft Docs](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.microsoft.com%2Fen-au%2F&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=EMhkvkYBn%2BCbTaN7jP%2F9kem9MM%2FkaOPSKLHe3Gej6AM%3D&reserved=0)

Reviewer 2: Outlook safelinks are ugly 🤮

```suggestion
- Read the documentation e.g. [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/)
```

Author: Fixed

> - Read the documentation e.g. [Microsoft Docs](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.microsoft.com%2Fen-au%2F&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=EMhkvkYBn%2BCbTaN7jP%2F9kem9MM%2FkaOPSKLHe3Gej6AM%3D&reserved=0)

Reviewer: change to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/

Author: Changed

- Explore the code e.g.
- look at if any other pages do similar things
- put breakpoints and check the values to see if you can figure out little bits
- Systematically check things, check a tiny part, confirm your understanding, then move to the next part
- Try to resolve it yourself a few times (at least 30 mins)

> 

Reviewer: make sure these are properly indented

Author: Done :)

As everyone's struggles are different and everyone's way of handling pressure is different, it's hard to provide a useful metric for precisely when to ask for help. However, here's a general rule to follow:

1. Find the smallest 'significant' amount of work that your project can allocate. In Scrum, this would be the smallest effort value (Extra-Small if using shirt sizes)
2. If you spend that amount of time trying to work out the problem, you **should** ask for help

> Once you've determined that you need help it is vital to [draft up context about what you have done](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ssw.com.au%2Frules%2Fdo-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=rNlv9Yw%2B3JuEQLF%2BMmRgdOALxNoWw8%2FQv4n0hU5Ry2U%3D&reserved=0) and [provide options so they have some starting point](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ssw.com.au%2Frules%2Fdo-you-manage-up&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=coB2z2m0aKvqUK7GmYXVjh28aFAoHgksg82QrpUHJB4%3D&reserved=0).

Reviewer 2: Outlook safelinks are ugly 🤮
```suggestion
Once you've determined that you need help it is vital to [draft up context about what you have done](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/do-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails) and [provide options so they have some starting point](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/do-you-manage-up).
```

Author: Fixed

> Once you've determined that you need help it is vital to [draft up context about what you have done](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ssw.com.au%2Frules%2Fdo-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=rNlv9Yw%2B3JuEQLF%2BMmRgdOALxNoWw8%2FQv4n0hU5Ry2U%3D&reserved=0) and [provide options so they have some starting point](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ssw.com.au%2Frules%2Fdo-you-manage-up&data=05%7C01%7CSamWagner%40ssw.com.au%7C2b80dfbf1b4c4397f32808da8aecff12%7Cac2f7c34b93548e9abdc11e5d4fcb2b0%7C0%7C0%7C637975047735355922%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=coB2z2m0aKvqUK7GmYXVjh28aFAoHgksg82QrpUHJB4%3D&reserved=0).

Reviewer: change to https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/do-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails
and
https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/do-you-manage-up

Author: Changed

uri: ask-for-help
authors:
  - title: Sam Wagner
  - title: Piers Sinclair
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/piers-sinclair
  - title: Brady Stroud
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/brady-stroud
related:
  - do-you-use-timeboxing-to-avoid-wasted-time
  - do-you-manage-up
  - do-you-add-context-reasoning-to-your-emails
created: 2022-08-30T04:06:01.553Z
guid: 113b1e11-6df4-4901-9e9f-bcc06b6fb352
---
When you're working, you will encounter issues that block you from progressing, force you to do a lot of research or otherwise spend time building towards being able to complete your work. In these moments, the question arises, "When should I ask for help?"

> Before asking for help, make sure you've done your due-diligence and exhausted your normal avenues for unblocking yourself. This concept is critical when trying to talk with Senior developers because their time is much more valuable. If you [call them without having done any research, it will waste a lot of their time and yours](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/investigate-your-question-for-two-minutes-before-asking-someone-on-im) and won't be a good [ROI](https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/return-on-investment). Here are some examples for developers:

Author: Done - just one new line as adding a double carriage return in markdown is hard and not advisable.

> - Try Googling it
> - Check [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
> - Read the documentation e.g. [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/)
> - Explore the code e.g.
>   - look at if any other pages do similar things
>   - put breakpoints and check the values to see if you can figure out little bits
>   - Systematically check things, check a tiny part, confirm your understanding, then move to the next part
> - Try to resolve it yourself a few times (at least 30 mins)

Reviewer 2: Capitalize all first letters
```suggestion
- Try Googling it
- Check [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
- Read the documentation e.g. [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-au/)
- Explore the code e.g.
  - Look at if any other pages do similar things
  - Put breakpoints and check the values to see if you can figure out little bits
  - Systematically check things, check a tiny part, confirm your understanding, then move to the next part
- Try to resolve it yourself a few times (at least 30 mins)
```

As everyone's struggles are different and everyone's way of handling pressure is different, it's hard to provide a useful metric for precisely when to ask for help. However, here's a general rule to follow:

> 1. Find the smallest 'significant' amount of work that your project can allocate. In Scrum, this would be the smallest effort value (Extra-Small if using shirt sizes)

Reviewer: I think we should reword this to be a bit easier to understand

e.g.

"If the time worked on your PBI has exceeded the effort and you aren't getting anywhere then you should seek help"

Author: I'm unsure if I like this. 

I think that a reword is fine. However, I do believe that someone should have an actionable piece of advice that would allow them to ask for help during the allotted effort. Otherwise, we're technically advising them to not ask for help unless the allotted effort is is exceeded. Which is not right.

Reviewer: Happy for it to be within the allocated effort, just want it to be easy to understand (aka simplify the words)

Author: 100%. I'll re-word it and see if you like it :)

> As everyone's struggles are different and everyone's way of handling pressure is different, it's hard to provide a useful metric for precisely when to ask for help. However, here's a general rule to follow:
> 
> 1. Find the smallest 'significant' amount of work that your project can allocate. In Scrum, this would be the smallest effort value (Extra-Small if using shirt sizes)
> 2. If you spend that amount of time trying to work out the problem, you **should** ask for help

Reviewer 2: @SamBWagner @pierssinclairssw 

I preferred the suggestion of asking for help once you exceed the estimate. 

```suggestion
As everyone's struggles are different and everyone's way of handling pressure is different, it's hard to provide a useful metric for precisely when to ask for help. However, as a general rule, if you are blocked for more than the estimated time on the PBI, ask for help.
```

Author: I personally don't prefer it as I believe that people should ask well before exceeding a timebox in more cases than not.
